You've seen how to interact with
CrateDB using the web-based
console and Crash command line
tools.
In this video I'll show you how
to talk to CrateDB using its
two primary client interfaces.
So let's jump right in.
CrateDB has two main client
interfaces.
The first of these uses the
PostgreSQL Wire Protocol on port
5432.
Adopting the PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
means that CrateDB is compatible
with a wide range of tools and
libraries out-of-the-box.
The other interface is the
HTTP endpoint and it's found
at port 4200.
Using this endpoint, you can
submit SQL statements for
execution and receive results
back over HTTP.
Both client interfaces can be
secured using Transport Layer
Security and SSL certificates,
but we won't focus on that in
this overview.
If you're running CrateDB using
Docker, you might have noticed
these ports already.
Here we're telling Docker to map
port 4200 the HTTP interface and
5432 Postgres to the equivalent
port numbers on the host machine
when running CrateDB.
This enables you to connect to
the database running in the
container using either approach.
Support for the Postgres wire
protocol means you can use a
variety of tools to connect to
CrateDB.
Here I've installed the PostgreSQL
psql command line tool and I'm
connecting to a local instance
of CrateDB.
I've specified the host and port
that it's running on, as well as
the user to connect as and the
default schema to connect to.
Note that in Postgres the
default schema is called public,
in CrateDB it's doc, so I'm
making sure to pass that in
here.
SQL queries work as you'd
expect.
Here I'm asking CrateDB to tell
me what the most popular types
of car in the Chicago taxi fleet
are.
The query is sent to CrateDB
on port 5432 using the PostgreSQL
Wire Protocol and the response
is received and formatted by the
psql CLI for display.
Let's turn our attention to the
HTTP endpoint for a moment.
It's found at /_sql on port
4200 of your CrateDB node.
If you want to use another port
number, you can do this by
changing the node's
configuration.
SQL statements are submitted for
execution by sending a POST
request to the endpoint with the
SQL in the JSON body of the
request.
Responses containing results are
returned as JSON too.
You can use parameterised
queries by passing both the SQL
statement and an array of
arguments in the JSON body, and
the HTTP endpoint also
supports bulk operations, for
example to insert several
records in a single request
response cycle.
Here's an example HTTP POST that
runs a SELECT statement.
I'm using the curl command line
tool to send this to CrateDB
running locally.
You can of course use any API or
HTTP request testing tool, for
example Postman or Insomnia.
The SQL statement is sent to
CrateDB inside a JSON object
with a key named stmt.
CrateDB executes the statement
and returns a JSON response
containing the result.
Here the cols array contains
the names of the columns
returned, and the rows array
contains a further array for
each matching row. For your
convenience
rowcount indicates how many
rows were affected and duration
tells you how long the query
took to run in milliseconds.
This example inserts 3 records
at once.
The values are provided in the
bulk_args array in the JSON
body of the request.
In this video you learnt about
the two client interfaces
offered by CrateDB.
Compatibility with the PostgreSQL
Wire Protocol leads to easy
integration with a wide range of
tools and ecosystems.
An HTTP endpoint provides an
alternative interface that's
also based on common standards,
meaning ease of access from many
tools and frameworks.
Many drivers and SDKs build on
top of these to provide rich,
idiomatic interfaces to CrateDB
for popular programming language.
We'll cover these drivers in a
separate video.
Take a moment to try out some
queries using the
HTTP endpoint and the sample
data set in your own CrateDB
cluster.
Remember you can use the curl
command or tools such as
Postman, Insomnia or whatever
your favorite API testing tool
is.